
This file contains a short list of current and near-future priority
activities. It should be updated often, if possible at least twice
a week.

Last updated Nov 9 2023

CURRENTLY ACTIVE PRIORITIES

1. Installation of C-LARA on UniSA server. Since this has local file
storage, it should be much faster than Heroku, which relies on S3.
We have said the server will be released before ALTA, Nov 29. Nearly
everything is now working, though we need to test properly and do some
cleaning up. In particular, the JavaScript is still not quite right.

2. Extension of C-LARA code to support annotated images. This will
enable integration with a second Melbourne Uni project, which is
producing a graphical editing tool for this task. We are working on
adding the relevant extensions and are now perhaps 80% done. We want
this to be ready for when the students come back after exams mid-Nov.
We have two things left to do: add thumbnails to concordance entries
with images, and make it possible to include multiple images in a
C-LARA text.

3. Make gpt-4-turbo available in C-LARA.

4. Integration of some version of "phonetic text" into C-LARA, porting
this functionality from the LARA code. Pauline Welby will be visiting
Adelaide Nov 22-25, and we said phonetic text would be the main item to
discuss.

5. Ongoing email discussion with Denis about AskTheCode plugin.
No deadline but frequent exchanges.

6. Ongoing discussion with Papr Memory about their memory plugin.
They think it should be possible for users to share memories,
which could have important implications for C-LARA.
No deadline but frequent exchanges.

PROBABLY ACTIVE SOON

1. Integration with Melbourne Uni student project Manual Text/Audio
Alignment. First version is now almost working. Currently on hold
while students do exams.

2. Integration with Melbourne Uni student project Automatic Text/Audio
Alignment. We are currently discussing with the team. The integration
should be very similar to (1) above. Currently on hold while students
do exams.

3. Integration with a third Melbourne Uni student project, Voice
Recorder.  An initial API has been added on the C-LARA side. Currently
on hold while students do exams.

4. Explore possibilities for making annotation of multi-words more
accurate. Several ideas have been discussed. This is highly relevant for
our upcoming presentation at  "Literacy and Contemporary Society:
Creativity, Equity, Social Action"

5. Make it possible to add C-LARA images using DALL-E-3

6. Integration of an automatic payment method into the C-LARA server.
The current informal system is not scalable. This is probably
needed for the UniSA server.

7. Improve design aspects of C-LARA. It will be easier to do this now that
the vision-enabled ChatGPT-4V is available. 

8. Prepare our presentation for "Literacy and Contemporary Society:
Creativity, Equity, Social Action", Dec 4-6.


